This repository contains the code and documentation for the Getting and Cleaning Data assignment. 
The main script, run_analysis.R, performs the analysis on the UCI HAR Dataset (Samsung data) by merging
the training and test sets, extracting mean and standard deviation measurements, applying descriptive activity names,
labeling the dataset with descriptive variable names, and finally creating an independent tidy dataset with the
average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

File Structure
run_analysis.R
The main R script that executes the data cleaning and analysis. It assumes the UCI HAR Dataset is in your working directory.
FinalTidyDataset.txt
The output text file containing the tidy dataset generated by the script.
README.md (with codebook)
This file, which describes how the script works and provides a code book for the variables.


How to Run the Analysis
1) Download and Unzip the Data:
Download the UCI HAR Dataset from the provided URL and unzip it into your working directory. Make sure the folder structure remains intact.
2) Place the Script:
Ensure that the run_analysis.R script is in your working directory alongside the unzipped data.
3) Set Your Working Directory:
Open R or RStudio and set your working directory to the location of your script and data files. 
You can do this with the command: setwd("path/to/your/working/directory")
4) Run the Script:
Execute the script by running: source("run_analysis.R")
This will process the data and generate the tidy dataset file, FinalTidyDataset.txt.

How the Script Works
The run_analysis.R script performs the following steps:
1) Merge the Training and Test Sets - It reads the relevant files for the test and training data, then merges them into a 
single dataset.
2) Apply Descriptive Activity Names - Activity codes in the dataset are replaced with descriptive names 
(e.g., WALKING, SITTING).
3) Extract Mean and Standard Deviation Measurements- The script reads the features list and selects only those variables 
that represent the mean and standard deviation.
4) Label the Dataset with Descriptive Variable Names - The script assigns meaningful names to the variables using
the provided features information.
5) Create an Independent Tidy Dataset: Lastly, the script groups the data by subject and activity, calculates
the average of each measurement, and writes the result to FinalTidyDataset.txt.

Code Book
Below is a brief description of the variables in the tidy dataset:
subject - the ID of the subject who performed the activity.

activity - a numeric code representing the activity type.
activity_name - a descriptive name of the activity (e.g., WALKING, SITTING, STANDING, etc.).
tBodyAcc-mean()-X - the average of the body acceleration signal in the X direction (time domain).
tBodyAcc-mean()-Y - the average of the body acceleration signal in the Y direction.
tBodyAcc-mean()-Z - the average of the body acceleration signal in the Z direction.
tBodyAcc-std()-X - the average standard deviation of the body acceleration signal in the X direction.
tBodyAcc-std()-Y - the average standard deviation of the body acceleration signal in the Y direction.
tBodyAcc-std()-Z - the average standard deviation of the body acceleration signal in the Z direction.

Additional variables in the tidy dataset follow similar naming conventions. For a complete description of all 
variables, please refer to the features.txt file that comes with the UCI HAR Dataset.



